Blog Series 2: Blockchains (#34)
MAESTRO-Pool/website: content/blog/series_2_blog_1/index.md

> # Cardano’s blockchain design is bespoke and unique in the industry [S2.1]

Reviewer: Remove [S2.1]

> # Cardano’s blockchain design is bespoke and unique in the industry [S2.1]

Reviewer: I found that there are a few rendering issues with both blogs. Also, would you mind making the references and blog format similar to the previous blog series (super script references, add table of contents)?

A few things I noticed regarding rendering:

- No header, so the date and author are incorrect
- A bunch of text is numbered when it shouldn't be
- Some links are not properly formatted
- No link to the next blog
- We didn't include a References section last time, so maybe exclude this time and opt for referencing directly in text?
- Missing images / links throughout (still has placeholders)

I recommend checking out the rendering on the actual site before reviews and before merging!!
 http://maestro-stake-pool-dev.surge.sh/blog/series_2_blog_1/

> 

Reviewer: Also, I recommend pushing the blogs through spell checking in the future! 
"Irreversbility" needs an "i", "gonna" should be "going to"

> ### Intro

Reviewer: If this is a series, add the table of contents for consistency with the other blog!

### What is a blockchain?

A blockchain in its simplest form is a way of storing data in a consistent format. Much like what a database is, but with special rules to adding information into the database. There is a twist, however. The key objective for this database is to be secure, and decentralized, so that no single group of adversaries cannot change it, or manipulate it to their favor. Generally, we use the power of a people, holding copies of this database, and a set of rules on how to add information to this database.

This method of keeping track of information being added to the system is called a Distributed Ledger System. More formally, it is a computer-based system in which a set of computer processes representing agents or users connected to a digital network operate collaboratively on a set of distributed ledger data structures.\[[1](https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/APJIE-12-2017-034/full/pdf?title=blockchain-properties-and-misconceptions)\] In our case, the data structure, is a collection or “block” of messages.

> There is a problem however when we simply create blocks of messages without hiding any personal information. We need a way of confirming which participant wrote which message. In most cases, distributed ledgers employ something called Cryptographic hashing. **Cryptographic hashing** is a way of scrambling your arbitrarily long data into a unique fixed sized set of numbers. The important note is that the method of “hashing” results in an output that is nearly impossible to track back to the original input, even when given the formula. This is important, because, in order to find the original message, you would have to guess different original messages to confirm that it matches the scrambled output. This is where the strength of mining and consensus comes from in many blockchains. Many hashing functions require bad actors to guess many billions if not trillions of original messages to confirm the output, and because it takes so long to feasibly guess correctly, we gain security.

Reviewer: "something called Cryptographic hashing" does C need to be capitalized?

> There is a problem however when we simply create blocks of messages without hiding any personal information. We need a way of confirming which participant wrote which message. In most cases, distributed ledgers employ something called Cryptographic hashing. **Cryptographic hashing** is a way of scrambling your arbitrarily long data into a unique fixed sized set of numbers. The important note is that the method of “hashing” results in an output that is nearly impossible to track back to the original input, even when given the formula. This is important, because, in order to find the original message, you would have to guess different original messages to confirm that it matches the scrambled output. This is where the strength of mining and consensus comes from in many blockchains. Many hashing functions require bad actors to guess many billions if not trillions of original messages to confirm the output, and because it takes so long to feasibly guess correctly, we gain security.

Reviewer: >scrambling your arbitrarily remove 

remove "your"

> There is a problem however when we simply create blocks of messages without hiding any personal information. We need a way of confirming which participant wrote which message. In most cases, distributed ledgers employ something called Cryptographic hashing. **Cryptographic hashing** is a way of scrambling your arbitrarily long data into a unique fixed sized set of numbers. The important note is that the method of “hashing” results in an output that is nearly impossible to track back to the original input, even when given the formula. This is important, because, in order to find the original message, you would have to guess different original messages to confirm that it matches the scrambled output. This is where the strength of mining and consensus comes from in many blockchains. Many hashing functions require bad actors to guess many billions if not trillions of original messages to confirm the output, and because it takes so long to feasibly guess correctly, we gain security.

Reviewer: >final input, even when given the formula

Whatchu mean by formula? Maybe explain?

> There is a problem however when we simply create blocks of messages without hiding any personal information. We need a way of confirming which participant wrote which message. In most cases, distributed ledgers employ something called Cryptographic hashing. **Cryptographic hashing** is a way of scrambling your arbitrarily long data into a unique fixed sized set of numbers. The important note is that the method of “hashing” results in an output that is nearly impossible to track back to the original input, even when given the formula. This is important, because, in order to find the original message, you would have to guess different original messages to confirm that it matches the scrambled output. This is where the strength of mining and consensus comes from in many blockchains. Many hashing functions require bad actors to guess many billions if not trillions of original messages to confirm the output, and because it takes so long to feasibly guess correctly, we gain security.

Reviewer: "The important note" is followed by "This is important", can we phrase this differently? It's also followed by "This is where"

> [consensus overview]

Reviewer: Remove this?

> ![Distributed Ledger](distributed_ledger_image.png)

Reviewer: The text in this image is too small - can you find another image or make your own?

There are several guarantees we want to meet when designing a blockchain

1. Decentralization
2. Irreversibility of adding information
3. Fault tolerance
4. Trustlessness
5. Pseudonymity

> 1. Decentralization is the idea that decisions about the network are made without a hierarchical power structure, every transaction is validated through a **consensus algorithm** (e.g. democratic voting).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Decentralization is the idea that decisions about the network are made without a hierarchical power structure: every transaction is validated through a **consensus algorithm** (e.g. democratic voting).
```

> 2. When messages are bundled into blocks, we want to ensure that we only ever add a block to the existing copy of the blockchain every other node has. The agreement between the participants that blocks cannot be removed once they are confirmed, and are appended only to the existing copy of the ledger that all the nodes have. We refer to this as **Immutability** or **Irreversbility of adding information**. This makes sure that, within the language of the network, you cannot change history. The reason this happens is because we want to protect against attackers who can change account balances, add or remove transactions, and other malicious behavior.

Reviewer: >The agreement between the participants that blocks cannot be removed once they are confirmed, and are appended only to the existing copy of the ledger that all the nodes have

Yeah, this isn't a sentence as it is currently. Consider revising

> 2. When messages are bundled into blocks, we want to ensure that we only ever add a block to the existing copy of the blockchain every other node has. The agreement between the participants that blocks cannot be removed once they are confirmed, and are appended only to the existing copy of the ledger that all the nodes have. We refer to this as **Immutability** or **Irreversbility of adding information**. This makes sure that, within the language of the network, you cannot change history. The reason this happens is because we want to protect against attackers who can change account balances, add or remove transactions, and other malicious behavior.

Reviewer: >This makes sure that, within the language of the network, you cannot change history. The reason this happens is because we want to protect against attackers who can change account balances, add or remove transactions, and other malicious behavior.

Maybe something like: On the network, you cannot change history making it impossible for attackers to change account balances, add or remove transactions, or modify the chain in any other malicious way.

> 3. Many blockchains are redundant and inefficient by design. We want to be able to have immutability in our decisions we make, and give no individual participants more power than any other, unlike other network models. Thus, we ask these participants, or “**nodes**” to compute the same thing. **Fault Tolerance** is the idea that if many nodes are taken down, the system can run. We also want it so that, if malicious participants want to try to take down the system, or push false information into our ledger, we have enough nodes to survive the attack, either by keeping the network running, or catching the slight via our consensus model.

Reviewer 2: Thus, we ask these participants, or “**nodes**” to compute the same thing. => Thus, we ask these participants- or “**nodes**”-to compute the same thing.

**Fault Tolerance** is the idea that if many nodes are taken down, the system can run. => **Fault Tolerance** is the idea that if many nodes are taken down, the system can still run.

We also want it so that, if malicious participants want to try to take down the system, or push false information into our ledger, we have enough nodes to survive the attack, either by keeping the network running, or catching the slight via our consensus model... => Fault tolerance also guarantees that if malicious participants try to take down the system or push false information into the ledger, we have enough nodes to survive the attack. 

..., either by keeping the network running, or catching the slight via our consensus model. => This can be achieved by either keeping the network running or catching the slight via our consensus model.

> 3. Many blockchains are redundant and inefficient by design. We want to be able to have immutability in our decisions we make, and give no individual participants more power than any other, unlike other network models. Thus, we ask these participants, or “**nodes**” to compute the same thing. **Fault Tolerance** is the idea that if many nodes are taken down, the system can run. We also want it so that, if malicious participants want to try to take down the system, or push false information into our ledger, we have enough nodes to survive the attack, either by keeping the network running, or catching the slight via our consensus model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Many blockchains are redundant and inefficient by design. We want to be able to have immutability in our decisions we make, and give no individual participants more power than any other, unlike other network models. Thus, we ask these participants- or “nodes”-to compute the same thing. **Fault Tolerance** is the idea that if many nodes are taken down, the system can still run. It also guarantees that if malicious participants try to take down the system or push false information into the ledger, we have enough nodes to survive the attack. This can be achieved by either keeping the network running or catching the slight via our consensus model.
```

4. The blockchain needs to assume that all nodes can be malicious, so communication between nodes is boiled down to protocols that are only imperative to the security of the network and the individual nodes. We want to communicate information with as little trust as possible on who’s making transactions, how we share potential blocks, and how we verify the blocks.

> 5. The blockchain should utilize naming conventions for participants such that personal information isn’t conveyed or required. Even better, that the network doesn’t have custom names for any form of accounting. This is the feature to secure the network by preventing malicious actors from tracking you down physically or discovering personal information.

Reviewer: >Even better, that the network doesn’t have custom names for any form of accounting.

I don't think this is a complete sentence.

### What's Up Next?

In the next blog we'll talk the approach Cardano takes to tackle various problems and design decisions for their blockchain! We're gonna talk about things like **provable security**, **extended UTxO** and **computational layers** in Cardano. 

### References

> \[1\] https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/APJIE-12-2017-034/full/pdf?title=blockchain-properties-and-misconceptions

Reviewer: Can you make the references multi-line?
